So welcome back, guys.
Now let us discuss our next concept on block merging now, block merging is exactly opposite to block
splitting.
So consider the snapshot of the heap mamady segment as shown in this diagram.
Right.
Suppose the process issues the request to free the block of memory, which is pointed by point or two.
That is, the process wants to free this data block.
Right.
So operating system now knows from the matter in that it has to flee and bytes of memory.
So the heat memory segment, after freeing this 10 bites of memory, would look something like this.
So whenever the operating system frees the day to block the operating system, runs the following algorithm
that is all consecutive three blocks must be matched together to form a bigger free block.
So you can see that in the second snapshot of this heap memory segment, the 10 byte data block and
six by data block are actually consecutive blocks and they are free.
So the operating system will merge these two blocks together to form a bigger block.
So you can see that this stand by itself memory and the six by itself memory is muzz together.
And of course, because these two blocks are massed together, we would not need this matter block.
So the memory occupied by this matter block is also mosed to the free memory.
So the total size of the block, which is formed after merging two consecutive blocks, will be 22 bytes
in this case.
So you can see that 10 bite of data block, which was pointed by the pointer BTR two is freed and Mosed
with six byte of data block, which was free to form a single 22 bytes of three data block.
So total number of blocks are reduced from six to five in this block list.
So this concept is called block merging.
And what is the use of block merging if you had the second snapshot of the Heap mammaries segment and
suppose the process had issues, the Mallak request for size 20 bytes.
Right.
So the memory segment in the second diagram has to raise its BRG printer forwards in order to satisfy
the request of these 20 bytes of memory to the process.
But because we have performed block merging on this heap memory segment to get the third snapshot of
the memory segment, you can see that the third heap memory segment need not to raise its breakpoint
further because it has a free data block which can satisfy the request of 20 bytes from the process.
So block mulching prevents the unnecessary expansion of heat memory segment so you can see that your
Marlock function should take care of block splitting block margin expansion of the heat memory segment
in case there is no available free data block to satisfy the request and also adjusting these pointers
in case of block splitting and block merging.
So your Malac function should handle all these scenarios.